---
title: My two takeaways from Getting Things Done
tags:
  - observation
  - share
  - note
summary: >-
  The main idea that’s stuck with me from the self help book “Getting Things
  Done”
notion_id: e73d478c-9977-42a3-8717-c64051bcc659
---
I’m generally allergic to anything that has the slightest whiff of “self help”, but I read David Allen’s book [_Getting things Done (GTD)_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_Things_Done)_,_ in college and it had a profound impact on me. It didn’t give me a solution to productivity or anything, but it did give me sound mental model for what makes productivity difficult and some tools to help combat that difficulty.

As someone who had a profoundly hard time staying on-task all through school, its a topic I’ve wrestled with a lot in my life. I still struggle with it, but I think GTD helped me quite a bit.

As I think back on it, these are the two main concepts from the book which still stick with me to this day:

- If you have a todo list with stuff on it, and you’re having a hard time getting started on any of them, they are probably too large or generic. The brain has a hard time transitioning to tasks it can’t _visualize_ itself doing. Define the next _concrete_ task you would take to make progress, and you’ll often be able to get unstuck. Sometimes my next step is just: “Figure out the next step for X”, and that works!
- Your brain knows when your system of self accountability is not reliable. If tasks are not tracked in a reliable way, it will periodically remind you of tasks you are mentally tracking. This feels _stressful_ since they are intrusive thoughts about stuff you need to do. However, if you have a TODO list you can add that item to, which your brain _trusts_ that you will revisit at the right time, it will give you peace. When I’m feeling overwhelmed, I have to take time to write down the things that I’m tracking. I almost always feel better.
